rst/devguide/api/GET_create_server_with_disk_config_servers.rst, before:

=============================================================================
Create Server With Disk Config -  Rackspace Cloud Servers Developer Guide - API v2.0
=============================================================================

Create Server With Disk Config
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Request <GET_create_server_with_disk_config_servers.rst#request>`__
`Response <GET_create_server_with_disk_config_servers.rst#response>`__

.. code-block:: javascript

    GET /servers

Create server with disk config

When you create a server from an image with the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value set to ``AUTO``, the server is built with a single partition that is expanded to the disk size of the flavor selected. When you set the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` attribute to ``MANUAL``, the server is built by using the partition scheme and file system that is in the source image. If the target flavor disk is larger, remaining disk space is left unpartitioned. A server inherits the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` attribute from the image from which it is created. However, you can override the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value when you create a server, as follows:

In these examples, the server is created with ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` set to ``MANUAL``, regardless of the value of the image's ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` attribute. Images also inherit the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value from a server. So, if an image is created from the server, it also has a ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value of ``MANUAL``.



This table shows the possible response codes for this operation:


+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Response Code             |Name                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|202                       |Success                  |Request accepted.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|400                       |Error                    |A general error has      |
|                          |                         |occured.                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|401                       |Unauthorized             |Unauthorized.            |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|403                       |Forbidden                |Forbidden.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|405                       |Bad Method               |Bad method.              |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|409                       |Conflicting Reqest       |Conflicting request.     |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|413                       |Over Limit               |The number of items      |
|                          |                         |returned is above the    |
|                          |                         |allowed limit.           |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|503                       |Service Unavailable      |The requested service is |
|                          |                         |unavailable.             |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|500                       |API Fault                |API fault.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+


Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^






This table shows the body parameters for the request:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|name                      |csapi:string *(Required)*|The server name.         |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|imageRef                  |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The image reference for  |
|                          |                         |the desired image for    |
|                          |                         |your server instance.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|flavorRef                 |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The flavor reference for |
|                          |                         |the desired flavor for   |
|                          |                         |your server instance.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|config_drive              |csapi:string *(Required)*|Enables metadata         |
|                          |                         |injection in a server    |
|                          |                         |through a configuration  |
|                          |                         |drive. To enable a       |
|                          |                         |configuration drive,     |
|                          |                         |specify ``true``.        |
|                          |                         |Otherwise, specify       |
|                          |                         |``false``.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|key_name                  |csapi:string *(Required)*|The name of the key pair |
|                          |                         |used to authenticate by  |
|                          |                         |using key-based          |
|                          |                         |authentication instead   |
|                          |                         |of password-based        |
|                          |                         |authentication.          |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|OS-DCF:diskConfig         |csapi:string *(Required)*|The disk configuration   |
|                          |                         |value. Valid values are: |
|                          |                         |AUTO:The server is built |
|                          |                         |with a single partition  |
|                          |                         |which is the size of the |
|                          |                         |target flavor disk. The  |
|                          |                         |file system is           |
|                          |                         |automatically adjusted   |
|                          |                         |to fit the entire        |
|                          |                         |partition. This keeps    |
|                          |                         |things simple and        |
|                          |                         |automated. AUTO is valid |
|                          |                         |only for images and      |
|                          |                         |servers with a single    |
|                          |                         |partition that use the   |
|                          |                         |EXT3 file system. This   |
|                          |                         |is the default setting   |
|                          |                         |for applicable Rackspace |
|                          |                         |base images. MANUAL:The  |
|                          |                         |server is built using    |
|                          |                         |the partition scheme and |
|                          |                         |file system of the       |
|                          |                         |source image. If the     |
|                          |                         |target flavor disk is    |
|                          |                         |larger, the remaining    |
|                          |                         |disk space is left       |
|                          |                         |unpartitioned. This      |
|                          |                         |enables images to have   |
|                          |                         |non-EXT3 file systems,   |
|                          |                         |multiple partitions, and |
|                          |                         |so on, and it enables    |
|                          |                         |you to manage the disk   |
|                          |                         |configuration.           |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|metadata                  |csapi:string *(Required)*|Metadata key and value   |
|                          |                         |pairs. The maximum size  |
|                          |                         |of each metadata key and |
|                          |                         |value is 255 bytes each. |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|personality               |csapi:array *(Required)* |The array of personality |
|                          |                         |files for the server.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|path                      |csapi:string *(Required)*|The path of the          |
|                          |                         |personality file.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|contents                  |csapi:string *(Required)*|The contents od the      |
|                          |                         |personality file.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|networks                  |csapi:array *(Required)* |The array of networks    |
|                          |                         |attached to the server.  |
|                          |                         |By default, the server   |
|                          |                         |instance is provisioned  |
|                          |                         |with all isolated        |
|                          |                         |networks for the tenant. |
|                          |                         |You can specify multiple |
|                          |                         |NICs on the server.      |
|                          |                         |Optionally, you can      |
|                          |                         |create one or more NICs  |
|                          |                         |on the server. To        |
|                          |                         |provision the server     |
|                          |                         |instance with a NIC for  |
|                          |                         |a ``Nova-network``       |
|                          |                         |network, specify the     |
|                          |                         |UUID in the ``uuid``     |
|                          |                         |attribute in a           |
|                          |                         |``networks`` object. To  |
|                          |                         |provision the server     |
|                          |                         |instance with a NIC for  |
|                          |                         |a ``Neutron`` network,   |
|                          |                         |specify the UUID in the  |
|                          |                         |``port`` attribute in a  |
|                          |                         |``networks`` object.     |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|uuid                      |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The UUID of the ``Nova-  |
|                          |                         |network`` network        |
|                          |                         |attached to the server.  |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|port                      |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The UUID of the          |
|                          |                         |``Neutron`` port         |
|                          |                         |attached to the server.  |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Create Server With Disk Config: JSON request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/jsonAccept: application/json


**Example Create Server With Disk Config: XML request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/xmlAccept: application/xml


Response
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


This table shows the body parameters for the response:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|server                    |csapi:object *(Required)*|The container for server |
|                          |                         |data.                    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|id                        |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The ID of the server.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|links                     |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |An array of the self and |
|                          |                         |bookmark links to the    |
|                          |                         |server.                  |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|href                      |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The URL for the server   |
|                          |                         |and the associated       |
|                          |                         |``rel``.                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|rel                       |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The descriptive field    |
|                          |                         |for the associated       |
|                          |                         |``href``, which is       |
|                          |                         |either ``self`` or       |
|                          |                         |``bookmark``.            |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|adminPass                 |csapi:string *(Required)*|The password assigned to |
|                          |                         |provide login access to  |
|                          |                         |the server.              |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|OS-DCF:diskConfig         |csapi:string *(Required)*|The disk configuration   |
|                          |                         |value. Valid values are  |
|                          |                         |``AUTO`` and ``MANUAL``. |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Create Server With Disk Config: JSON request**


.. code::

    Status Code: 202 AcceptedContent-Length: 380Content-Type: application/jsonDate: Fri, 30 Jan 2015 18:38:52 GMTLocation: https://dfw.servers.api.rackspacecloud.com/v2/820712/servers/b7509240-9ad2-4303-8614-a11a33aeb6f3Server: Jetty(8.0.y.z-SNAPSHOT)Via: 1.1 Repose (Repose/2.12)x-compute-request-id: req-186f2212-f4b7-4d0a-bbbb-92bc19797a1d


**Example Create Server With Disk Config: XML request**


.. code::

    Status Code: 202 AcceptedContent-Length: 582Content-Type: application/xmlDate: Fri, 30 Jan 2015 19:16:32 GMTLocation: https://dfw.servers.api.rackspacecloud.com/v2/820712/servers/0d256d61-ce4e-4375-a632-6028f25f0998Server: Jetty(8.0.y.z-SNAPSHOT)Via: 1.1 Repose (Repose/2.12)x-compute-request-id: req-5228cc18-7fbb-4208-9085-d987879b6d5d

Commit message:

Updates with latest WADL from docs-cloud-servers

rst/devguide/api/GET_create_server_with_disk_config_servers.rst, after:

=============================================================================
Create Server With Disk Config -  Rackspace Cloud Servers Developer Guide - API v2.0
=============================================================================

Create Server With Disk Config
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Request <GET_create_server_with_disk_config_servers.rst#request>`__
`Response <GET_create_server_with_disk_config_servers.rst#response>`__

.. code-block:: javascript

    GET /servers

Create server with disk config

When you create a server from an image with the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value set to ``AUTO``, the server is built with a single partition that is expanded to the disk size of the flavor selected. When you set the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` attribute to ``MANUAL``, the server is built by using the partition scheme and file system that is in the source image. If the target flavor disk is larger, remaining disk space is left unpartitioned. A server inherits the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` attribute from the image from which it is created. However, you can override the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value when you create a server, as follows:

In these examples, the server is created with ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` set to ``MANUAL``, regardless of the value of the image's ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` attribute. Images also inherit the ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value from a server. So, if an image is created from the server, it also has a ``OS-DCF:diskConfig`` value of ``MANUAL``.



This table shows the possible response codes for this operation:


+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Response Code             |Name                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|202                       |Success                  |Request accepted.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|400                       |Error                    |A general error has      |
|                          |                         |occured.                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|401                       |Unauthorized             |Unauthorized.            |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|403                       |Forbidden                |Forbidden.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|405                       |Bad Method               |Bad method.              |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|409                       |Conflicting Reqest       |Conflicting request.     |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|413                       |Over Limit               |The number of items      |
|                          |                         |returned is above the    |
|                          |                         |allowed limit.           |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|503                       |Service Unavailable      |The requested service is |
|                          |                         |unavailable.             |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|500                       |API Fault                |API fault.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+


Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^






This table shows the body parameters for the request:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|name                      |csapi:string *(Required)*|The server name.         |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|imageRef                  |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The image reference for  |
|                          |                         |the desired image for    |
|                          |                         |your server instance.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|flavorRef                 |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The flavor reference for |
|                          |                         |the desired flavor for   |
|                          |                         |your server instance.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|config_drive              |csapi:string *(Required)*|Enables metadata         |
|                          |                         |injection in a server    |
|                          |                         |through a configuration  |
|                          |                         |drive. To enable a       |
|                          |                         |configuration drive,     |
|                          |                         |specify ``true``.        |
|                          |                         |Otherwise, specify       |
|                          |                         |``false``.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|key_name                  |csapi:string *(Required)*|The name of the key pair |
|                          |                         |used to authenticate by  |
|                          |                         |using key-based          |
|                          |                         |authentication instead   |
|                          |                         |of password-based        |
|                          |                         |authentication.          |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|OS-DCF:diskConfig         |csapi:string *(Required)*|The disk configuration   |
|                          |                         |value. Valid values are: |
|                          |                         |AUTO:The server is built |
|                          |                         |with a single partition  |
|                          |                         |which is the size of the |
|                          |                         |target flavor disk. The  |
|                          |                         |file system is           |
|                          |                         |automatically adjusted   |
|                          |                         |to fit the entire        |
|                          |                         |partition. This keeps    |
|                          |                         |things simple and        |
|                          |                         |automated. AUTO is valid |
|                          |                         |only for images and      |
|                          |                         |servers with a single    |
|                          |                         |partition that use the   |
|                          |                         |EXT3 file system. This   |
|                          |                         |is the default setting   |
|                          |                         |for applicable Rackspace |
|                          |                         |base images. MANUAL:The  |
|                          |                         |server is built using    |
|                          |                         |the partition scheme and |
|                          |                         |file system of the       |
|                          |                         |source image. If the     |
|                          |                         |target flavor disk is    |
|                          |                         |larger, the remaining    |
|                          |                         |disk space is left       |
|                          |                         |unpartitioned. This      |
|                          |                         |enables images to have   |
|                          |                         |non-EXT3 file systems,   |
|                          |                         |multiple partitions, and |
|                          |                         |so on, and it enables    |
|                          |                         |you to manage the disk   |
|                          |                         |configuration.           |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|metadata                  |csapi:string *(Required)*|Metadata key and value   |
|                          |                         |pairs. The maximum size  |
|                          |                         |of each metadata key and |
|                          |                         |value is 255 bytes each. |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|personality               |csapi:array *(Required)* |The array of personality |
|                          |                         |files for the server.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|user_data                 |csapi:string *(Required)*|Data used with           |
|                          |                         |config_drive for         |
|                          |                         |configuring a server.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|path                      |csapi:string *(Required)*|The path of the          |
|                          |                         |personality file.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|contents                  |csapi:string *(Required)*|The contents od the      |
|                          |                         |personality file.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|networks                  |csapi:array *(Required)* |The array of networks    |
|                          |                         |attached to the server.  |
|                          |                         |By default, the server   |
|                          |                         |instance is provisioned  |
|                          |                         |with all isolated        |
|                          |                         |networks for the tenant. |
|                          |                         |You can specify multiple |
|                          |                         |NICs on the server.      |
|                          |                         |Optionally, you can      |
|                          |                         |create one or more NICs  |
|                          |                         |on the server. To        |
|                          |                         |provision the server     |
|                          |                         |instance with a NIC for  |
|                          |                         |a ``Nova-network``       |
|                          |                         |network, specify the     |
|                          |                         |UUID in the ``uuid``     |
|                          |                         |attribute in a           |
|                          |                         |``networks`` object. To  |
|                          |                         |provision the server     |
|                          |                         |instance with a NIC for  |
|                          |                         |a ``Neutron`` network,   |
|                          |                         |specify the UUID in the  |
|                          |                         |``port`` attribute in a  |
|                          |                         |``networks`` object.     |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|uuid                      |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The UUID of the ``Nova-  |
|                          |                         |network`` network        |
|                          |                         |attached to the server.  |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|port                      |csapi:UUID *(Required)*  |The UUID of the          |
|                          |                         |``Neutron`` port         |
|                          |                         |attached to the server.  |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Create Server With Disk Config: JSON request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/jsonAccept: application/json


**Example Create Server With Disk Config: XML request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/xmlAccept: application/xml


Response
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


This table shows the body parameters for the response:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|server                    |csapi:object             |The container for server |
|                          |                         |data.                    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|id                        |csapi:UUID               |The ID of the server.    |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|links                     |csapi:UUID               |An array of the self and |
|                          |                         |bookmark links to the    |
|                          |                         |server.                  |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|href                      |csapi:UUID               |The URL for the server   |
|                          |                         |and the associated       |
|                          |                         |``rel``.                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|rel                       |csapi:UUID               |The descriptive field    |
|                          |                         |for the associated       |
|                          |                         |``href``, which is       |
|                          |                         |either ``self`` or       |
|                          |                         |``bookmark``.            |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|adminPass                 |csapi:string             |The password assigned to |
|                          |                         |provide login access to  |
|                          |                         |the server.              |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|OS-DCF:diskConfig         |csapi:string             |The disk configuration   |
|                          |                         |value. Valid values are  |
|                          |                         |``AUTO`` and ``MANUAL``. |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Create Server With Disk Config: JSON request**


.. code::

    Status Code: 202 AcceptedContent-Length: 380Content-Type: application/jsonDate: Fri, 30 Jan 2015 18:38:52 GMTLocation: https://dfw.servers.api.rackspacecloud.com/v2/820712/servers/b7509240-9ad2-4303-8614-a11a33aeb6f3Server: Jetty(8.0.y.z-SNAPSHOT)Via: 1.1 Repose (Repose/2.12)x-compute-request-id: req-186f2212-f4b7-4d0a-bbbb-92bc19797a1d


**Example Create Server With Disk Config: XML request**


.. code::

    Status Code: 202 AcceptedContent-Length: 582Content-Type: application/xmlDate: Fri, 30 Jan 2015 19:16:32 GMTLocation: https://dfw.servers.api.rackspacecloud.com/v2/820712/servers/0d256d61-ce4e-4375-a632-6028f25f0998Server: Jetty(8.0.y.z-SNAPSHOT)Via: 1.1 Repose (Repose/2.12)x-compute-request-id: req-5228cc18-7fbb-4208-9085-d987879b6d5d
