rst/devguide/api/POST_rescue_specified_server_servers_server_id_actions.rst, before:

=============================================================================
Rescue Specified Server -  Rackspace Cloud Servers Developer Guide - API v2.0
=============================================================================

Rescue Specified Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Request <POST_rescue_specified_server_servers_server_id_actions.rst#request>`__
`Response <POST_rescue_specified_server_servers_server_id_actions.rst#response>`__

.. code-block:: javascript

    POST /servers/{server_id}/actions

Enter rescue mode to reboot a virtual machine (VM) in rescue mode so that you can access the VM with a new root password and fix any file system and configuration errors.

Enter rescue mode to debug system issues that prevent you from booting a server to a usable state.

When you place a server in rescue mode, the following events occur:

The VM is shut down.

A new VM is created with the following images attached:

Primary imageCleanly running VM based on the image from which the original server was created, with a random password. This password is returned to you in a response to issuing the rescue mode API call. Use this clean image to boot the server and fix any problems.

Secondary diskImage of the VM that needs to be rescued.

When you put a server into rescue mode, you cannot use it until its status goes from ``ACTIVE`` to ``RESCUE``. This does not happen immediately.

For a full list of possible server status values, see

The SSH server key will be different on the rescue image than on the original server.

.Specify the target server ID in the URI.

After you resolve any problems and reboot the rescued server, you can unrescue the server (see ). The unrescue operation restores the repaired image to running state with its original password.

In the request body, specify the ``rescue`` action.

If you use ``{"rescue": "none"}`` in the request body, the API will attempt to build the rescue mode server from whatever the image_base_image_ref field is set to in Nova DB (the original image used to build the server, normally).

If, instead, you use ``{"rescue": {"rescue_image_ref": " < imageID > "}}``, the API uses the specified image for the rescue mode instance. This is extremely useful if the image originally used to build the server is now either non-functional or has been deleted.



This table shows the possible response codes for this operation:


+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Response Code             |Name                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|202                       |Success                  |Request succeeded.       |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|400                       |Error                    |A general error has      |
|                          |                         |occured.                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|401                       |Unauthorized             |Unauthorized.            |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|403                       |Forbidden                |Forbidden.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|405                       |Bad Method               |Bad method.              |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|409                       |Conflicting Reqest       |Conflicting request.     |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|413                       |Over Limit               |The number of items      |
|                          |                         |returned is above the    |
|                          |                         |allowed limit.           |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|503                       |Service Unavailable      |The requested service is |
|                          |                         |unavailable.             |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|500                       |API Fault                |API fault.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+


Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This table shows the URI parameters for the request:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|{server_id}               |csapi:UUID               |The UUID for the server. |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





This table shows the body parameters for the request:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|rescue                    |object *(Required)*      |Specification of the     |
|                          |                         |rescue action for the    |
|                          |                         |specified server.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Rescue Specified Server: JSON request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/jsonAccept: application/json


**Example Rescue specified server with image: JSON request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/jsonAccept: application/json


Response
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


This table shows the body parameters for the response:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|adminPass                 |object *(Required)*      |The new adminstrator     |
|                          |                         |password.                |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Rescue specified server (same for both requests): JSON request**


.. code::

    Status Code: 202 OKContent-Length: 1250Content-Type: application/jsonDate: Thu, 10 Dec 2014 19:43:18 GMTServer: Jetty(8.0.y.z-SNAPSHOT)Via: 1.1 Repose (Repose/2.12)x-compute-request-id: req-8c905dfe-2c9a-17e5-8e53-4478e2813c75

Commit message:

Updates with latest WADL from docs-cloud-servers

rst/devguide/api/POST_rescue_specified_server_servers_server_id_actions.rst, after:

=============================================================================
Rescue Specified Server -  Rackspace Cloud Servers Developer Guide - API v2.0
=============================================================================

Rescue Specified Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Request <POST_rescue_specified_server_servers_server_id_actions.rst#request>`__
`Response <POST_rescue_specified_server_servers_server_id_actions.rst#response>`__

.. code-block:: javascript

    POST /servers/{server_id}/actions

Enter rescue mode to reboot a virtual machine (VM) in rescue mode so that you can access the VM with a new root password and fix any file system and configuration errors.

Enter rescue mode to debug system issues that prevent you from booting a server to a usable state.

When you place a server in rescue mode, the following events occur:

The VM is shut down.

A new VM is created with the following images attached:

Primary imageCleanly running VM based on the image from which the original server was created, with a random password. This password is returned to you in a response to issuing the rescue mode API call. Use this clean image to boot the server and fix any problems.

Secondary diskImage of the VM that needs to be rescued.

When you put a server into rescue mode, you cannot use it until its status goes from ``ACTIVE`` to ``RESCUE``. This does not happen immediately.

For a full list of possible server status values, see

The SSH server key will be different on the rescue image than on the original server.

.Specify the target server ID in the URI.

After you resolve any problems and reboot the rescued server, you can unrescue the server (see ). The unrescue operation restores the repaired image to running state with its original password.

In the request body, specify the ``rescue`` action.

If you use ``{"rescue": "none"}`` in the request body, the API will attempt to build the rescue mode server from whatever the image_base_image_ref field is set to in Nova DB (the original image used to build the server, normally).

If, instead, you use ``{"rescue": {"rescue_image_ref": " < imageID > "}}``, the API uses the specified image for the rescue mode instance. This is extremely useful if the image originally used to build the server is now either non-functional or has been deleted.

The following extension provides additional rescue with image functionality.



This table shows the possible response codes for this operation:


+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Response Code             |Name                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|202                       |Success                  |Request succeeded.       |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|400                       |Error                    |A general error has      |
|                          |                         |occured.                 |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|401                       |Unauthorized             |Unauthorized.            |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|403                       |Forbidden                |Forbidden.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|405                       |Bad Method               |Bad method.              |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|409                       |Conflicting Reqest       |Conflicting request.     |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|413                       |Over Limit               |The number of items      |
|                          |                         |returned is above the    |
|                          |                         |allowed limit.           |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|503                       |Service Unavailable      |The requested service is |
|                          |                         |unavailable.             |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|500                       |API Fault                |API fault.               |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+


Request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This table shows the URI parameters for the request:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|{server_id}               |csapi:UUID               |The UUID for the server. |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





This table shows the body parameters for the request:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|rescue                    |object *(Required)*      |Specification of the     |
|                          |                         |rescue action for the    |
|                          |                         |specified server.        |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Rescue Specified Server: JSON request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/jsonAccept: application/json


**Example Rescue specified server with image: JSON request**


.. code::

    X-Auth-Token: f064c46a782c444cb4ba4b6434288f7cContent-Type: application/jsonAccept: application/json


Response
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


This table shows the body parameters for the response:

+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
|Name                      |Type                     |Description              |
+==========================+=========================+=========================+
|adminPass                 |object                   |The new adminstrator     |
|                          |                         |password.                |
+--------------------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+





**Example Rescue specified server (same for both requests): JSON request**


.. code::

    Status Code: 202 OKContent-Length: 1250Content-Type: application/jsonDate: Thu, 10 Dec 2014 19:43:18 GMTServer: Jetty(8.0.y.z-SNAPSHOT)Via: 1.1 Repose (Repose/2.12)x-compute-request-id: req-8c905dfe-2c9a-17e5-8e53-4478e2813c75
